---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 - Progress in Programming Report
date: 2022-04-05
labels:
  - MIS
  - Learning
---
## 1. My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
I do not know if I necessarily agree with this statement. I feel if anything I can look at code line by line and understand what each statement is trying to accomplish (most of the time). I think an example of this is all of the exercises that we do in our labs. On its own without a little guidance, I feel like I would not know how to get started to accomplish the exercise. But with the little examples of code I know what it is trying to do so I am able to code around that finish the exercise (most of the time). Then again the WODs did show that I am able to do most (if not all) of the exercise without looking at a solution. I also feel like when I am stuck (or have issues) I am able to look up problems to be able to get ideas on how to better resolve them. 
## 2. I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
Agreed, I definitely have a lot to improve when it comes to my programming skills. I could always do a little better trying to memorize different functions, methods, etc. to use in my code. There are times where I have to  look these up even though I know it was probably listed in our reading. I can also probably do a better job at trying to start from scratch and making my own program. An example of this would be server.js from Assignment 1. When it came to the server I feel that I heavily relied on the provided examples to get my server working the way I wanted. Rather than relying on examples and then modifying, I feel that it would have been better to have a basic program started and then modifying/adding whatever else that was needed. Also, I need to work on my vocabulary when it comes to computers/tech. 
## 3. I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:
For the most part I feel that this statement is true. There were a few times where I got stuck at a specific part and could not figure it out on my own quickly, so I would look at the screencast to resolve my specific issue and then finish the rest of the WOD. I did watch the WOD at the end in order to see if there was anything that was done that I may have approached differently that may be less efficient. Ultimately, having the screencast was helpful, but I did not have to copy it in order to complete the exercise. 
## 4. The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence: 
The topics in the lab have been great and offer opportunities to learn. I feel that at times there are important topics that we should have done together in class, because I do struggle on them and that and I probably did end up doing some of the parts wrong. So in order to give my answer to this statement - definitely the labs help offer opportunities to learn, but I am not confident in my ability to complete them on my own. 
## 5. I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
Assignment 1 was an interesting assignment because it covered everything that we learned in class (though I feel that the concepts revolving around servers were a little rushed). I feel that this experience really helped show me what I understood, and where I still need some work. I do feel somewhat ready for assignment 2. 
## 6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
I feel that if we do not cover everything in class and are sent home to finish labs, that we should go over the answers in the next class. This would help to ensure that all the solutions are correct (and not just assume that they are). I do understand that if we are struggling we should reach out for help, but since these are concepts that we are trying to learn to do our assignments, I feel that it is beneficial to take the time to go over it (to ensure understanding for the whole class).  Also, to improve my learning I would say that the way questions are asked during class should change slightly. Though I understand why it is done the way it is, I feel that it adds unnecessary stress to attending class (where my prep is to anticipate the question that I will be put on the spot to answer rather than absorbing the concepts). I also asked a previous student to see how they felt about this and they apparently also had similar opinions, but then again we may be the only ones to feel this way. 
## 7. What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):
I feel that the readings slightly help with the class, at least give a surface level understanding of the concept being covered. WODs and Labs helped a little as far as actually putting the concept to work. Though I would say that readings outside of the ones aside have helped me the most. Like when having issues with the lab, having to look up potential solutions have helped solidify my understanding. 

